1. Talk to your teams. Talk to every individual person by their name even though they are not in your team.

2. Know at least one thing that is important to members in your team. You will discover a world behind every person. It will surprise you how diverse your team is.

3. Communicate ofter and communicate well. Your team will be looking at you most of the time to understant where the team and the company is going. Be straight and to the point. No time for lingering.

4. Be a problem resolver and unblocker of problems. Your team will often come to you when there is a problem they cannot solve.

5. Protect and defend your team. This is not a war scenario but often you will be responsable to protect the team members.

6. Do not just disappear when there is a conflict. There will be a lot and you will need to find the better way to resolve them. Get to understand the both parties. Have them understand each other. You will see that it is only a small problem that can be resolved with a good hand shake.

7. Make the borders clear. One of the biggest reasons of conflict is not clear responsabilities or the overlap between them. Make sure your team has clear duties.

8. Have coffe with your teams. This is not a lost time where you get to talk about last nights soccer game. This is about being a team. More time you are with your team the less of a boss they will see you as.

9. Leave your titles behind. 18 years of engineering, having managed hundreds of servers, any created many teams do not mean anything. You are a part of the team and there is no need for a pre-potent boss.

10. Do not do the work for your team members. If a junior cannot finish a task don't just give it to another senior for the sake of finishing it earlier. Help junior to finish it, dedicate a couple of ours to make sure he does it right. This is the way you convert a junior to a senior. You were once there. Remember?

11. Be ethical. You will see , hear a lot of things that is just a part of a political game. Don't get in there and don't get your team involved. You don't have time to waste.

12. Be honest and accept failures. You will make good decisions and bad once. Praise the team, not yourself for the success and say you are sorry if you have made a bad decision. Team will understand.

13. Consult your team as they consult you. Being their boss does not mean to have a one way conversation and you are the Dalai Lama. There will be a lot of things you won't know about the technical aspects. Make asking for help a normal thing not an exception.

14. Talk, think and understand before you decide to fire someone. There are not bad members but rather bad bosses, toxic environments or personal problems. Find out what the problem is and get an action plan for your problematic team member. You will be astonished how people can convert to be a great member with just a little nodge at the door.

15. Be genuinely interested in the careers of the members of your team even though it means changing teams for that person. Not all member will want to continue in engineering. If you see a member interested in architcture and wanting to go there give him a try. Have him do architecture and coloborate with the architecture team. If it is ehat he wants open the doors for him to make the transition. He will be much more happier and much more productive there than in your team.

16. Earn your title. You don't come with a title in your forehead. Work hard to earn it.

17. Don't make decisions if you don't have to. Create a free environment where the team can explore ideas and come to a join decision. Be a one vote not the final decider.

18. Congratulate the team and member and congratulate often. There is no harm in clapping a good day's work.

19. Even though you don't notice your team will be looking at you for leadership. Be the one to speak up the difficult and have the team focus on what is important.

20. Be humble and say thank you. You will see that your team will do too.

21. Get your team all together outside of work. You are not only creating a work force but a team where they will need support from each other many times over the years. Join with them, be a part of it.
